
Fully automated vehicles (also called autonomous vehicles) are not yet available to the public at large. Despite this undeniable fact, a large amount of research has been already carried out on the topic. Visions, where large shared automated vehicle fleets would be the backbone of transportation in urban areas, are playing a central role in the discussion about automated vehicles and future mobility. Several studies approached this kind of strategic planning questions with quantitative methodologies. However, we argue that some peculiarities of large shared automated vehicle systems were not taken into account. The paper shows how such peculiarities imply specific modelingscenario requirements and how such requirements could be addressed. The argumentation is qualitative, but two examples based on empirical data are provided to support it. Concepts to address such requirements are described based on MATSim, an agent-based simulation of transport, which emerged in recent years as one of the most commonly used modeling frameworks for the assessment of shared vehicle systems.
The aim of this chapter is to present the key determinants, factors, and motivators that affect the use, adoption, and satisfaction of transportation systems from the point of view of the end users, i.e., commuters and travelers. While later in the book, dedicated chapters focus on individual systems, this chapter aims to provide an overall introduction to the topic. Traditional and emerging transportation systems, models, and modes are examined, as well as, innovations that may receive significant market share in the near future. The analysis revealed that the use of public transport is influenced primarily by service reliability, especially for persons commuting for work, while the use of taxis by driver professionalism, convenience of booking, and price. For shared mobility with its various forms and models (carsharing, ridehailing, bikesharing, etc.), comfort, cost savings, and time savings are the primary common factors that have the highest positive effect on service quality. Shared autonomous vehicles can further enhance the factors that encourage the use of shared mobility, despite the safety concerns expressed for this innovation. Finally, the future adoption of urban air mobility is expected to be influenced by time savings followed by convenience and service reliability.
Technology is changing the way we move and reshaping cities and society. Shared and on-demand mobility represent notable transportation shifts in the 21st century. In recent years, mobility on demand (MOD)-where consumers access mobility, goods, and services on-demand by dispatching shared modes, courier services, public transport, and other innovative strategies-has grown rapidly due to technological advancements; changing consumer preferences; and a range of economic, environmental, and social factors. New attitudes toward sharing, MOD, and mobility as a service (MaaS) are changing traveler behavior and creating new opportunities and challenges for public transportation. This chapter discusses similarities and differences between the evolving concepts of MaaS and MOD. Next, it characterizes the range of existing public transit and MOD service models and enabling partnerships. The chapter also explores emerging trends impacting public transportation. While vehicle automation could result in greater public transit competition in the future, it could also foster new opportunities for transit enhancements (e.g., microtransit services, first- and last-mile connections, reduced operating costs). The chapter concludes with a discussion of how MODMaaS partnerships and automation could enable the public transit industry to reinvent itself, making it more attractive and competitive with private vehicle ownership and use.
We analyze the implications of vehicle automation for the accessibility of vulnerable social groups (i.e., people on low income, people with physical and sensory disabilities, older people) and consequently for their transport-related social exclusion. First, we show that the accessibility component influenced by automated vehicles, the vehicle automation level, and the mobility service model (i.e., private or shared vehicles) would likely determine the magnitude and direction of social inclusion implications for these social groups. Positive implications for accessibility and thus social inclusion are expected to increase with the level of vehicle automation and vehicle sharing. Yet, the requirements for digital access and online payment for those services, vehicle custom-design, operating complexities, and uncertainties, insecurity and distrust in adoption new vehicle technologies could compromise possible accessibility gains and thus negatively influence social inclusion levels.
Smart mobility entails the coordinated use of technology to increase the quality and efficiency of mobility provision, while minimizing or reducing the space consumed and externalities generated by transportation supply. In order to plan and design for such smart mobility systems, it becomes necessary to understand how their dynamics play out in response to urban design elements. Smart city urban design, therefore, cannot be conceived of without considering details about the mobility system that will serve it. This chapter starts with an introduction to transportation demand planning and modeling approaches. It considers traditional four-step travel demand modeling and compares it to later approaches that consider the effects of individual activity–travel behavior and decision-making. It also provides an overview of integrated transportation and land-use planning, where the interaction of the transportation system and its resulting accessibility affects location choice behavior of firms and households. Agent-based modeling approaches capable of capturing the high degree of complexity and coordination in emerging smart mobility systems are introduced. In what follows, two contrasting approaches to the question of integrated urban systems design with smart mobility systems are set forth. In the first approach, the agent-based traffic simulation, MATSim, is integrated into an urban design workflow such that an agent-based travel demand this rapidly produced from typical urban design digital drawings such as a road network layer, massing of buildings by use, and other design elements such as the location of transit stops, parking space, active mobility network, etc. In this sketch planning approach, future mobility systems are made available to serve the transportation demand that would be plausibly produced from the urban design. In this way, the urban designer can then evaluate and compare designs and mobility systems, tinker with various design elements and system parameters, and rerun the simulation to have the design and mobility flows that it will produce coevolve. This approach is tested in an application of a prospective neighborhood design in Singapore. A hypothetical new transit system, served by autonomous vehicles and capable of moving the passenger between any combination of stops in the study area without predetermined routes, is tested for three different network designs. The experiment reveals that, in order to provide a predefined level of service, each of the three designs will require a different fleet size, while producing radically different experiences to the individuals who will be living and working in the neighborhood. The second experiment explores how the spacing of transit stops in a neighborhood affect the performance of such a dynamically routed transit service, resulting in different levels of use of the road network and associated externalities that residents will be exposed to. Insights from how this smart mobility system will perform can inform trade-offs about where to invest in infrastructure expenditure: should one build more transit stops or should one rather invest in maximizing walkability to a smaller set of transit stops and so be able to bundle rides together?
The purpose of this work is to review urban transportation likely to be offered in the future. Trip-making behaviour has already changed considerably as lifestyles change and they will continue to change in the future. This work reflects and places emphasis on profound thinking about the possibilities, rather than predicting them. Thoughts about possibilities for the future draw upon imagination, perceived and justified feasibility, and lessons gained from the past. This work attempts to capture the possibilities, logistics and travel modes of future urban transportation. A visionary, feasibility-related approach grounded in a realist perspective is proposed, only conceptually, to explore plausible visions for the future. In addition, this work shows the inefficiency of using private cars (PCs) and argues that in the development of autonomous and electric vehicles, PCs cannot provide a solution competitive with the potential that urban transportation systems have for the future. Hence, the solutions for the future must be based on public transport (PT) modes of travel, regardless of whether they are metro, bus, light rail, tram, ridesharing services, an ordinary taxi, personal rapid transit, or any other PT-based future mode. The key principal of operation for the mobility of a smart city will be the ability to optimize the connectivity of movement in order to approach a seamless move, while endowing the phrase door-to-door travel with new meaning. Finally, it would be remiss not to mention the unforeseeable implications of the Covid-19 pandemic for future mobility, more controllable by automation of non-privately owned vehicle, and with the prospect of people demonstrating a greater inclination towards changing their habits, behaviour, and thinking paradigms.
Shared mobility-the shared use of a vehicle, bicycle, or other mode-is an innovative transportation strategy that enables users to gain short-term access to transportation modes on an “as-needed” basis. It includes various forms of carsharing, bikesharing, scooter sharing, ridesharing (carpooling and vanpooling), transportation network companies (TNCs), and microtransit. Included in this ecosystem are smartphone “apps” that aggregate and optimize these mobility options, as well as “courier network services” that provide last mile package and food delivery. This chapter describes different models that have emerged in shared mobility and reviews research that has quantified the environmental, social, and transportation-related impacts of these services.
Although recent studies of Shared Autonomous Vehicles (SAVs) have explored the economic costs and environmental impacts of this technology, little is known about how SAVs can change urban forms, especially by reducing the demand for parking. This study estimates the potential impact of SAV system on urban parking demand under different system operation scenarios with the help of an agent-based simulation model. The simulation results indicate that we may be able to eliminate up to 90% of parking demand for clients who adopt the system, at a low market penetration rate of 2%. The results also suggest that different SAV operation strategies and client's preferences may lead to different spatial distribution of urban parking demand.
Urban mobility is particularly affected by technology development. This research focuses on the mobility system of cities in the foreseeable future – that is, until the 2030s. A systematic literature review (SLR) of 62 scientific documents and 52 scenarios predicted and developed by researchers are presented here, providing a comprehensive picture of current urban transport research perspectives. Based on a complex method built for this review, four scenarios (‘Grumpy old transport’, ‘At an easy pace’, ‘Mine is yours’, and ‘Tech-eager mobility’) have been created, each forecasting a different path towards future urban mobility. The scenarios so formed describe the expected role and potential of emerging mobility solutions (namely autonomous vehicles, shared mobility, and electrification) and include socio-economic and environmental perspectives. By 2030, most likely pathways are the ‘At an easy pace’ or the ‘Mine is yours’ scenarios, which means that only an incremental advance, such as a slow shift towards self-driving, electric and shared vehicle use is predicted.
This study examines the potential changes in residential location choice in a scenario where shared autonomous vehicles (SAVs) are a popular mode of travel in the Atlanta metropolitan area. This hypothetical study is based on an agent-based simulation approach, which integrates residential location choice models with a SAV simulation model. The coupled model simulates future home location choices given current home location preferences and real estate development patterns. The results indicate that commuters may relocate to neighborhoods with better public schools and more amenities due to reductions in commute costs.
Automated vehicles (AVs) could completely change mobility in the coming years and decades. As AVs are still under development and gathering empirical data for further analysis is not yet possible, existing studies mainly applied models and simulations to assess their impact. This paper provides a comprehensive review of modelling studies investigating the impacts of AVs on travel behaviour and land use. It shows that AVs are mostly found to increase vehicle miles travelled and reduce public transport and slow modes share. This particularly applies to private AVs, which are also leading to a more dispersed urban growth pattern. Shared automated vehicle fleets, conversely, could have positive impacts, including reducing the overall number of vehicles and parking spaces. Moreover, if it is assumed that automation would make the public transport system more efficient, AVs could lead to a favouring of urbanisation processes. However, results are very sensitive to model assumptions which are still very uncertain (e.g. the perception of time in AVs) and more research to gain further insight should have priority in future research as well as the development of the models and their further adaptation to AVs.
Autonomous vehicles (AVs) are starting to hit our roads. It is only a matter of time until the technological challenges still facing full AV implementation are solved, and legal, social, and transport issues related to AVs become part of the public discussion. AVs have the potential to become a major catalyst for urban transformation. To explore some of these transformations, first, we discuss the possibility of decoupling the many functions of urban vehicles from the form factor (without drivers, do cars need to look like they look today?). Second, we question whether AVs will lead to more or fewer cars on the roads, highlighting the synergies between AVs and ride-sharing schemes. Third, with AVs as part of multimodal and sharing-mobility systems, millions of square kilometers currently used for parking spaces might be liberated, or even change the way we design road space. Fourth, freed from the fatigue related to traffic, we question whether AVs would make people search for home locations farther from cities, increasing urban sprawl, or would rather attract more residents to city centers, also freed from congestion and pollution. Fifth, depending on responses to the previous questions and innovative traffic algorithms, we ask whether AVs will demand more or less road infrastructure. We conclude by suggesting that AVs offer the first opportunity to rethink urban life and city design since cars replaced horse-powered traffic and changed the design of cities for a hundred years.
The world today is rapidly changing with the spread of automation. Moreover, urban life is more and more common and the number of inhabitants is rapidly growing. This time is the renaissance of bicycle-based vehicles, especially of electric power assisted bicycles. Vehicle sharing is also getting more popular. These progresses will have a crucial effect on traditional transportation networks. Moreover, the traffic volume, parking facilities and public space usage can be drastically modified. A research data is introduced from Paris and Lisbon, which helps to forecast the effect of the autonomous and sharing systems. This evolution can be advantageous, but it can also bring some disadvantages. In this article, these changes are summarized in the mirror of history, especially the Futurama concept and the transport system changes in Los Angeles. This overview will be a good basis for further research and for the development of a routing algorithm.
Growing concerns about global motorization and climate change have led to increasing interest in sustainable transportation alternatives such as bikesharing (the shared use of a bicycle fleet). Since 1965, bikesharing has grown across the globe on five continents: Europe, North America, South America, Asia, and Australia. Today, approximately 100 bikesharing programsareoperatinginanestimated125cities, with more than 139,300 bicycles. Bikesharing's evolution is categorized into three generations: (a) white bikes (or free bike systems), (b) coin-deposit systems, and (c) information technology-based systems. In this paper, a fourth generation is proposed: demand-responsive, multimodal systems. A range of existing bikesharing businessmodels(e.g., advertising)andlessons learned are discussed, including (a) bicycle theft and vandalism, (b) bicycle redistribution, (c) information systems (e.g., real-time information), (d) insurance and liability concerns, and (e) prelaunch considerations. Although limited in number, several studies have documented bikesharing's social and environmental benefits, which include reduced auto use, increased bicycle use, and a growing awareness of bikesharing as a daily mobility option. Despite bikesharing's ongoing growth, obstacles and uncertainty remain: these include future demand, safety, sustainability of business models, limited cycling infrastructure, challenges to integrate with public transportation systems, technology costs, and user convenience (e.g., limited height adjustment on bicycles, lack of cargo space, and exposure to weather). More research is needed for a better understanding of bikesharing's effects, operations, and business models in light of its articleed growth and benefits.
Since the early 20th century, inventors have conceptualized 'plane cars' and other urban aerial transportation. Emerging innovations in electrification, automation, and other technologies are enabling new opportunities for on-demand air mobility, business models, and aircraft design. Urban air mobility (UAM) envisions a safe, sustainable, affordable, and accessible air transportation system for passenger mobility, goods delivery, and emergency services within or traversing metropolitan areas. This research employed a multi-method approach comprised of 106 interviews with thought leaders and two stakeholder workshops to construct the history, ecosystem, state of the industry, and potential evolution of UAM. The history, current developments, and anticipated milestones of UAM can be classified into six phases: 1) 'flying car' concepts from the early 1910s to 1950s, 2) early UAM operations using scheduled helicopter services from the 1950s to 1980s, 3) re-emergence of on-demand services starting in the 2010s, 4) corridor services using vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) envisioned for the 2020s, 5) hub and spoke services, and 6) point-to-point services. In the future, UAM could face several barriers to growth and mainstreaming, such as the existing regulatory environment; community acceptance; and concerns about safety, noise, social equity, and environmental impacts. UAM also could be limited by infrastructure and airspace management needs, as well as business model constraints. The paper concludes with recommendations for future research on sustainability, social and economic impacts, airspace integration, and other topics.
This book provides a long-overdue vision for a new automobile era. The cars we drive today follow the same underlying design principles as the Model Ts of a hundred years ago. In the twenty-first century, cars are still made for twentieth-century purposes. They're well suited for conveying multiple passengers over long distances at high speeds, but inefficient for providing personal mobility within cities- where most of the world's people now live. William Mitchell and two industry experts reimagine the automobile, describing vehicles of the near future that are green, smart, connected, and fun to drive. They roll out four big ideas that will make this both feasible and timely. First, we must transform the DNA of the automobile, basing it on electric-drive and wireless communication rather than on petroleum and the internal combustion engine. This allows vehicles to become lighter, cleaner, and "smart" enough to avoid crashes and traffic jams. Second, automobiles need to be linked by a Mobility Internet that allows them to collect and share data on traffic conditions, intelligently coordinates their movements, and keeps drivers connected to their social networks. Third, automobiles must be recharged through a convenient, cost-effective infrastructure that is integrated with smart electric grids and makes increasing use of renewable energy sources. Finally, dynamically priced markets for electricity, road space, parking space, and shared-use vehicles must be introduced to provide optimum management of urban mobility and energy systems The new DNA of the automobile -- The mobility Internet -- Reinventing the automobile for urban use -- Clean, smart energy supply -- Charging infrastructure -- Integrating vehicles and smart electric grids -- New mobility markets -- Personal mobility in an urbanizing world -- Realizing the vision.
