There are natural synergies between shared autonomous vehicle (AV) fleets and electric vehicle (EV) technology, since fleets of AVs resolve the practical limitations of today's non-autonomous EVs, including traveler range anxiety, access to charging infrastructure, and charging time management. Fleet-managed AVs relieve such concerns, managing range and charging activities based on real-time trip demand and established charging-station locations, as demonstrated in this paper. This work explores the management of a fleet of shared autonomous electric vehicles (SAEVs) in a regional, discrete-time, agent-based model. The simulation examines the operation of SAEVs under various vehicle range and charging infrastructure scenarios in a gridded city modeled roughly after the densities of Austin, Texas. Results based on 2009 NHTS trip distance and time-of-day distributions indicate that fleet size is sensitive to battery recharge time and vehicle range, with each 80-mile range SAEV replacing 3.7 privately owned vehicles and each 200-mile range SAEV replacing 5.5 privately owned vehicles, under Level II (240-volt AC) charging. With Level III 480-volt DC fast-charging infrastructure in place, these ratios rise to 5.4 vehicles for the 80-mile range SAEV and 6.8 vehicles for the 200-mile range SAEV. SAEVs can serve 96–98% of trip requests with average wait times between 7 and 10 minutes per trip. However, due to the need to travel while “empty” for charging and passenger pick-up, SAEV fleets are predicted to generate an additional 7.1–14.0% of travel miles. Financial analysis suggests that the combined cost of charging infrastructure, vehicle capital and maintenance, electricity, insurance, and registration for a fleet of SAEVs ranges from $0.42 to $0.49 per occupied mile traveled, which implies SAEV service can be offered at the equivalent per-mile cost of private vehicle ownership for low-mileage households, and thus be competitive with current manually-driven carsharing services and significantly cheaper than on-demand driver-operated transportation services. When Austin-specific trip patterns (with more concentrated trip origins and destinations) are introduced in a final case study, the simulation predicts a decrease in fleet “empty” vehicle-miles (down to 3–4% of all SAEV travel) and average wait times (ranging from 2 to 4 minutes per trip), with each SAEV replacing 5–9 privately owned vehicles.
Micro-mobility is increasingly recognised as a promising mode of urban transport, particularly for its potential to reduce private vehicle use for short-distance travel. Despite valuable research contributions that represent fundamental knowledge on this topic, today's body of research appears quite fragmented in relation to the role of micro-mobility as a transformative solution for meeting sustainability outcomes in urban environments. This paper consolidates knowledge on the topic, analyses past and on-going research developments, and provides future research directions by using a rigorous and auditable systematic literature review methodology. To achieve these objectives, the paper analysed 328 journal publications from the Scopus database covering the period between 2000 and 2020. A bibliographic analysis was used to identify relevant publications and explore the changing landscape of micro-mobility research. The study constructed and visualised the literature's bibliometric networks through citations and co-citations analyses for authors, articles, journals and countries. The findings showed a consistent spike in recent research outputs covering the sustainability aspects of micro-mobility reflecting its importance as a low-carbon and transformative mode of urban transport. The co-citation analysis, in particular, helped to categorise the literature into four main research themes that address benefits, technology, policy and behavioural mode-choice categories where the majority of research has been focused during the analysis period. For each cluster, inductive reasoning is used to discuss the emerging trends, barriers as well as pathways to overcome challenges to wide-scale deployment. This article provides a balanced and objective summary of research evidence on the topic and serves as a reference point for further research on micro-mobility for sustainable cities.
Shared Autonomous Vehicles (SAVs) have gained significant public interest as a possible less expensive, safer and more efficient version of today's transportation networking companies (TNCs) and taxis. One way to expand on the possible benefits of an SAV fleet is through electric vehicles (EVs), which tend to be more energy efficient, more reliable, quicker, and may reduce system-wide emissions when coupled with renewable power. EVs are quickly becoming more financially viable as the price of these vehicles drops and charging infrastructure is appearing in more and more locations across the world. EVs are disadvantaged by their relatively short range and long recharge times, so it is important to understand how these factors will affect an electrified SAV (SAEV) fleet in terms of vehicle miles traveled (VMT), vehicle productivity, and response times. Perhaps the most important factor to consider before implementation is cost, since it is quite unlikely that a fleet operator will elect to use an EV fleet when a gasoline fleet is more profitable. This study makes in-depth estimates of the cost of this SAEV fleet based on vehicle purchasing costs, vehicle maintenance, batteries, electricity, charger construction (including land acquisition and paving), charger maintenance, insurance, registration and general administrative costs. These costs are estimated at low-, high- and mid-cost scenarios, where mid-cost is the most expected. This study performed a simulation of SAEVs across the Austin, Texas 6-county region under 6 different fleet scenarios to assess what factors make the fleet the most profitable and provide the best customer experience. The simulation process features thoughtful charging strategies, dynamic ridesharing, mode choice, and a multi-step search algorithm. Results showed that for all metrics studied, the gasoline hybrid-electric (HEV) fleet performed better than EV fleets, while remaining more profitable, providing response times of 4.5 min compared to 5.5 min. The HEV fleet is the more profitable option until the cost of gasoline exceeds $10 per gallon or the cost of a long-range EV falls below $16,000 through subsidies. Of all the EVs studied, the long-range fast-charging scenario not only provides the best service in terms of all metrics studied, but is by far the most profitable. Even though EVs may not be financially advantageous in the near term, the environmental benefits could be substantial; EVs have the potential to provide zero-carbon transportation when coupled with a renewable power grid. Gasoline vehicles have no such potential. Environmentalism tends to have little effect on financial decisions, but a carbon tax could change that perspective.
This paper provides a systematic review of studies that model future autonomous vehicles (AVs) in urban mobility and logistics using an agent-based model (ABM). Eighty relevant papers published between 2015–2020 are included. This review evaluates the quality of each model through the newly developed AAODD (Autonomous vehicle Agent-based Overview, Design concepts and Details) protocol in four perspectives: model transparency, research questions, network + agent behaviour and model execution. Then, similarities and particularities of the papers are summarised based on whether AVs are used for passenger mobility or for freight logistics. The reviewed mobility papers exhibit the ABMs’ applicability and flexibility for studying different AV operational patterns. We summarise the respective modelling specifications in research questions, data collections, model platforms, model executions, and scenario variations. Overall, by combining AVs with different technical possibilities and operational strategies, the simulation results illustrate that AVs would bring vast benefits to urban mobility networks. Unlike AVs’ usage in passenger mobility, it is still unclear how AVs will serve future urban logistics demands. Many operational patterns, including unmanned aerial vehicles, autonomous robots, autonomous trucks, and autonomous cargo-hatching vehicles coexist in the research community. The number of relevant papers remains low due to the early stage of AV technology deployment. However, ABMs also prove their applicability for analysing the macro and mesoscopic impacts of freight AV transportation on urban network. The reviewed papers suggest that implementing AVs for urban logistics is more efficient and environmentally friendly than conventional delivery vehicles. Overall, ABMs are a powerful tool for simulating future urban scenarios with AVs. By calculating the average score of reviewed papers obtained via AAODD annually, we find that studies simulating AV systems in ABMs are getting more complex by combing diverse technological possibilities, supporting the simulation of more realistic future scenarios. The outcomes of reviewed ABM research reveals that AVs are a promising solution for solving current urban transport problems. Lastly, as nearly all current reviewed studies focus on AVs’ usages in either mobility or logistics, research on an integrated simulation that combines AVs for both purposes has been scarcely addressed. We discuss its necessities, possibilities, and opportunities in this paper, to steer future research in this direction.
Carsharing programs that operate as short-term vehicle rentals (often for one-way trips before ending the rental) like Car2Go and ZipCar have quickly expanded, with the number of US users doubling every 1-2. years over the past decade. Such programs seek to shift personal transportation choices from an owned asset to a service used on demand. The advent of autonomous or fully self-driving vehicles will address many current carsharing barriers, including users' travel to access available vehicles.This work describes the design of an agent-based model for shared autonomous vehicle (SAV) operations, the results of many case-study applications using this model, and the estimated environmental benefits of such settings, versus conventional vehicle ownership and use. The model operates by generating trips throughout a grid-based urban area, with each trip assigned an origin, destination and departure time, to mimic realistic travel profiles. A preliminary model run estimates the SAV fleet size required to reasonably service all trips, also using a variety of vehicle relocation strategies that seek to minimize future traveler wait times. Next, the model is run over one-hundred days, with driverless vehicles ferrying travelers from one destination to the next. During each 5-min interval, some unused SAVs relocate, attempting to shorten wait times for next-period travelers.Case studies vary trip generation rates, trip distribution patterns, network congestion levels, service area size, vehicle relocation strategies, and fleet size. Preliminary results indicate that each SAV can replace around eleven conventional vehicles, but adds up to 10% more travel distance than comparable non-SAV trips, resulting in overall beneficial emissions impacts, once fleet-efficiency changes and embodied versus in-use emissions are assessed. © 2013 Elsevier Ltd.
Recent technological developments have shown significant potential for transforming urban mobility. Considering first- and last-mile travel and short trips, the rapid adoption of dockless bike-share systems showed the possibility of disruptive change, while simultaneously presenting new challenges, such as fleet management or the use of public spaces. In this paper, we evaluate the operational characteristics of a new class of shared vehicles that are being actively developed in the industry: scooters with self-repositioning capabilities. We do this by adapting the methodology of shareability networks to a large-scale dataset of dockless bike-share usage, giving us estimates of ideal fleet size under varying assumptions of fleet operations. We show that the availability of self-repositioning capabilities can help achieve up to 10 times higher utilization of vehicles than possible in current bike-share systems. We show that actual benefits will highly depend on the availability of dedicated infrastructure, a key issue for scooter and bicycle use. Based on our results, we envision that technological advances can present an opportunity to rethink urban infrastructures and how transportation can be effectively organized in cities.
Challenged by urbanization and increasing travel needs, existing transportation systems need new mobility paradigms. In this article, we present the emerging concept of autonomous mobility-on-demand, whereby centrally orchestrated fleets of autonomous vehicles provide mobility service to customers. We provide a comprehensive review of methods and tools to model and solve problems related to autonomous mobility-on-demand systems. Specifically, we first identify problem settings for their analysis and control, from both operational and planning perspectives. We then review modeling aspects, including transportation networks, transportation demand, congestion , operational constraints, and interactions with existing infrastructure. Thereafter, we provide a systematic analysis of existing solution methods and performance metrics, highlighting trends and trade-offs. Finally, we present various directions for further research. 633
In this paper we present queueing-theoretical methods for the modeling, analysis, and control of autonomous mobility-on-demand (MOD) systems wherein robotic, self-driving vehicles transport customers within an urban environment and rebalance themselves to ensure acceptable quality of service throughout the network. We first cast an autonomous MOD system within a closed Jackson network model with passenger loss. It is shown that an optimal rebalancing algorithm minimizing the number of (autonomously) rebalancing vehicles while keeping vehicle availabilities balanced throughout the network can be found by solving a linear program. The theoretical insights are used to design a robust, real-time rebalancing algorithm, which is applied to a case study of New York City and implemented on an eight-vehicle mobile robot testbed. The case study of New York shows that the current taxi demand in Manhattan can be met with about 8,000 robotic vehicles (roughly 70% of the size of the current taxi fleet operating in Manhattan). Finally, we extend our queueing-theoretical setup to include congestion effects, and study the impact of autonomously rebalancing vehicles on overall congestion. Using a simple heuristic algorithm, we show that additional congestion due to autonomous rebalancing can be effectively avoided on a road network. Collectively, this paper provides a rigorous approach to the problem of system-wide coordination of autonomously driving vehicles, and provides one of the first characterizations of the sustainability benefits of robotic transportation networks.
The transportation sector is at the beginning of a transition represented by electrification, shared mobility, and automation, which could lead to either increases or decreases in total travel and energy use. Understanding the factors enabling deep decarbonization of the passenger vehicle sector is essential for planning the required infrastructure investments and technology adoption policies. We examine the requirements for meeting carbon reduction targets of 80% and higher for passenger vehicle transport in the United States (US) by midcentury under uncertainty. We model the changes needed in vehicle electrification, electricity carbon intensity, and travel demand. Since growth in fleet penetration of electric vehicles (EVs) is constrained by fleet stock turnover, we estimate the EV penetration rates needed to meet climate targets. We find for a base case level of passenger vehicle travel, midcentury deep decarbonization of US passenger transport is conditional on reducing the electricity generation carbon intensity to close to zero along with electrification of about 67% or 84% of vehicle travel to meet decarbonization targets of 80% or 90%, respectively. Higher electricity generation carbon intensity and degraded EV fuel economy due to automation would require higher levels of fleet electrification andor further constrain the total vehicle travel allowable. Transportation deep decarbonization not only depends on electricity decarbonization, but also has a total travel budget, representing a maximum total vehicle travel threshold that still enables meeting a midcentury climate target. This makes encouraging ride sharing, reducing total vehicle travel, and increasing fuel economy in both human-driven and future automated vehicles increasingly important to deep decarbonization.
Autonomous vehicles (AVs) are conveyances to move passengers or freight without human intervention. AVs are potentially disruptive both technologically and socially, with claimed benefits including increased safety, road utilization, driver productivity and energy savings. Here we estimate 2014 and 2030 greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions and costs of autonomous taxis (ATs), a class of fully autonomous shared AVs likely to gain rapid early market share, through three synergistic effects: (1) future decreases in electricity GHG emissions intensity, (2) smaller vehicle sizes resulting from trip-specific AT deployment, and (3) higher annual vehicle-miles travelled (VMT), increasing high-efficiency (especially battery-electric) vehicle cost-effectiveness. Combined, these factors could result in decreased US per-mile GHG emissions in 2030 per AT deployed of 87-94% below current conventionally driven vehicles (CDVs), and 63-82% below projected 2030 hybrid vehicles, without including other energy-saving benefits of AVs. With these substantial GHG savings, ATs could enable GHG reductions even if total VMT, average speed and vehicle size increased substantially. Oil consumption would also be reduced by nearly 100%.
As the transportation sector undergoes three major transformations—electrification, sharedon-demand mobility, and automation—there are new challenges to analyzing the impacts of these trends on both the transportation system and the power sector. Most models that analyze the requirements of fleets of shared autonomous electric vehicles (SAEVs) operate at the scale of an urban region, or smaller. A quadratically constrained, quadratic programming problem is formulated, designed to model the requirements of SAEVs at a national scale. The size of the SAEV fleet, the necessary charging infrastructure, the fleet charging schedule, and the dispatch required to serve demand for trips in a region are treated as decision variables. By minimizing both the amortized cost of the fleet and chargers as well as the operational costs of charging, it is possible to explore the coupled interactions between system design and operation. To apply the model at a national scale, key complications about fleet operations are simplified; but a detailed agent-based regional simulation model to parameterize those simplifications is leveraged. Preliminary results are presented, finding that all mobility in the United States (U.S.) currently served by 276 million personally owned vehicles could be served by 12.5 million SAEVs at a cost of $ 0.27vehicle-mile or $ 0.18passenger-mile. The energy requirements for this fleet would be 1142 GWhday (8.5% of 2017 U.S. electricity demand) and the peak charging load 76.7 GW (11% of U.S. power peak). Several model sensitivities are explored, and it is found that sharing is a key factor in the analysis.
We review the history, current developments, projected future trends and environmental impacts of automated vehicles (AVs) and on-demand mobility, and explore potential synergies. Many automobile manufacturers and Google plan to release AVs between 2017 and 2020, with potential benefits including increased safety, more efficient road use, increased driver productivity and energy savings. Estimates of AV energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions range from an ~80 % or greater decrease to a threefold increase; however, we argue that net decreases are likely. On-demand mobility services exist in many cities around the world, with advances in mobile technology increasing their popularity. On-demand mobility can provide numerous transportation, land use, and environmental and social benefits, and users tend to decrease both vehicle ownership and annual vehicle distances traveled. Combining on-demand mobility and AVs may amplify adoption of both, and further lower energy use and GHG emissions through the use of small, efficient shared AVs.
Urban mobility is currently undergoing three fundamental transformations with the sharing economy, electrification, and autonomous vehicles changing how people and goods move across cities. In this paper, we demonstrate the valuable contribution of decision support systems that combine data-driven analytics and simulation techniques in understanding complex systems such as urban transportation. Using the city of Berlin as a case study, we show that shared, autonomous electric vehicles can substantially reduce resource investments while keeping service levels stable. Our findings inform stakeholders on the trade-off between economic and sustainability-related considerations when fostering the transition to sustainable urban mobility.
In this paper we develop methods for maximizing the throughput of a mobility-on-demand urban transportation system. We consider a finite group of shared vehicles, located at a set of stations. Users arrive at the stations, pickup vehicles, and drive (or are driven) to their destination station where they drop-off the vehicle. When some origins and destinations are more popular than others, the system will inevitably become out of balance: vehicles will build up at some stations, and become depleted at others. We propose a robotic solution to this rebalancing problem that involves empty robotic vehicles autonomously driving between stations. Specifically, we utilize a fluid model for the customers and vehicles in the system. Then, we develop a rebalancing policy that lets every station reach an equilibrium in which there are excess vehicles and no waiting customers and that minimizes the number of robotic vehicles performing rebalancing trips. We show that the optimal rebalancing policy can be found as the solution to a linear program. We use this solution to develop a real-time rebalancing policy which can operate in highly variable environments. Finally, we verify policy performance in a simulated mobility-on-demand environment and in hardware experiments. © 2012 The Author(s).
Over the last decades the vehicle industry has shown interest in integrating new technologies on vehicles’ design. Such technologies are used in autonomous, connected and electrical vehicles with the primary hope of improving road safety and the environmental impact of road traffic. Regarding the environmental impact, the transport sector has been considered responsible for Greenhouse Gas emissions for the past thirty years or more, and efforts have been made to reduce impacts of such emissions on the environment. The environmental noise is also associated with road traffic and its effects on public health, along with ways of scaling them down, have been under investigation. Taking into consideration worldwide efforts on climate change and new vehicle technologies that are being introduced, this paper provides a review on the studies concerning the environmental and traffic noise impacts anticipated by the implementation of these kinds of vehicles in the market and in road traffic. Two types of studies, conducted the last 10 years, are included in this review: a) studies that use logical estimates to draw conclusions on how Connected and Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs) as well as Electrical Vehicles will alter fuel consumption, gas emission, etc., and b) studies that make use of mathematical frameworks and the data available to extract numerical results. Eleven (11) factors affecting CAVs’ environmental impacts were found and categorized based on whether they are related to the vehicle, the road network or the user. A comparison of the different procedures is attempted, in order to identify the factors that are influencing the emergence of anticipated environmental impacts as well as their variety and extent.
The climate change impacts of the anticipated growth in shared autonomous vehicles (SAVs) are highly uncertain due to competing mechanisms whose magnitudes are difficult to estimate. On the one hand, SAVs could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by driving more efficiently, avoiding traffic congestion, accelerating adoption of alternative fuel vehicles, and charging in alignment with renewable electricity generation. On the other hand, SAVs could induce more vehicle miles traveled (VMT) by lowering the time cost of travel and allowing non-drivers to travel more by car. In this study, we develop an energy system optimization model that integrates the electricity and transport sectors, computes endogenous technology adoption, and distinguishes SAVs from privately owned vehicles (POVs) to explore the contributions of SAVs to climate change mitigation. Our results show that widespread SAV adoption lowers costs and emissions, and that these desirable outcomes remain true even if SAVs induce double the VMT of the POVs they replace. SAVs dramatically accelerate the market penetration of electric vehicles. The environmental and economic benefits of this electrification trend are larger if electric SAV charging can be optimally aligned with renewable electricity generation. Especially in the short to medium term, SAV adoption can be a more impactful lever than a carbon tax for decarbonizing vehicle travel.
