Swarms
Swarm intelligence principles have been widely studied and applied to a number of different tasks where a group of autonomous robots is used to solve a problem with a distributed approach, i.e. without central coordination. A survey of such tasks is presented, illustrating various algorithms that have been used to tackle the challenges imposed by each task. Aggregation, flocking, foraging, object clustering and sorting, navigation, path formation, deployment, collaborative manipulation and task allocation problems are described in detail, and a high-level overview is provided for other swarm robotics tasks. For each of the main tasks, (1) swarm design methods are identified, (2) past works are divided in task-specific categories, and (3) mathematical models and performance metrics are described. Consistently with the swarm intelligence paradigm, the main focus is on studies characterized by distributed control, simplicity of individual robots and locality of sensing and communication. Distributed algorithms are shown to bring cooperation between agents, obtained in various forms and often without explicitly programming a cooperative behavior in the single robot controllers. Offline and online learning approaches are described, and some examples of past works utilizing these approaches are reviewed.
Modern cities are growing ecosystems that face new challenges due to the increasing population demands. One of the many problems they face nowadays is waste management, which has become a pressing issue requiring new solutions. Swarm robotics systems have been attracting an increasing amount of attention in the past years and they are expected to become one of the main driving factors for innovation in the field of robotics. The research presented in this paper explores the feasibility of a swarm robotics system in an urban environment. By using bio-inspired foraging methods such as multi-place foraging and stigmergy-based navigation, a swarm of robots is able to improve the efficiency and autonomy of the urban waste management system in a realistic scenario. To achieve this, a diverse set of simulation experiments was conducted using real-world GIS data and implementing different garbage collection scenarios driven by robot swarms. Results presented in this research show that the proposed system outperforms current approaches. Moreover, results not only show the efficiency of our solution, but also give insights about how to design and customize these systems.
In swarm robotics multiple robots collectively solve problems by forming advantageous structures and behaviors similar to the ones observed in natural systems, such as swarms of bees, birds, or fish. However, the step to industrial applications has not yet been made successfully. Literature is light on real-world swarm applications that apply actual swarm algorithms. Typically, only parts of swarm algorithms are used which we refer to as basic swarm behaviors. In this paper we collect and categorize these behaviors into spatial organization, navigation, decision making, and miscellaneous. This taxonomy is then applied to categorize a number of existing swarm robotic applications from research and industrial domains. Along with the classification, we give a comprehensive overview of research platforms that can be used for testing and evaluating swarm behavior, systems that are already on the market, and projects that target a specific market. Results from this survey show that swarm robotic applications are still rare today. Many industrial projects still rely on centralized control, and even though a solution with multiple robots is employed, the principal idea of swarm robotics of distributed decision making is neglected. We identified mainly following reasons: First of all, swarm behavior emerging from local interactions is hard to predict and a proof of its eligibility for applications in an industrial context is difficult to provide. Second, current communication architectures often do not match requirements for swarm communication, which often leads to a system with a centralized communication infrastructure. Finally, testing swarms for real industrial applications is an issue, since deployment in a productive environment is typically too risky and simulations of a target system may not be sufficiently accurate. In contrast, the research platforms present a means for transforming swarm robotics solutions from theory to prototype industrial systems.
The concept of an agent has become important in both artificial intelligence (AI) and mainstream computer science. Our aim in this paper is to point the reader at what we perceive to be the most important theoretical and practical issues associated with the design and construction of intelligent agents. For convenience, we divide these issues into three areas (though as the reader will see, the divisions are at times somewhat arbitrary). Agent theory is concerned with the question of what an agent is, and the use of mathematical formalisms for representing and reasoning about the properties of agents. Agent architectures can be thought of as software engineering models of agents; researchers in this area are primarily concerned with the problem of designing software or hardware systems that will satisfy the properties specified by agent theorists. Finally, agent languages are software systems for programming and experimenting with agents; these languages may embody principles proposed by theorists. The paper is not intended to serve as a tutorial introduction to all the issues mentioned; we hope instead simply to identify the most important issues, and point to work that elaborates on them. The article includes a short review of current and potential applications of agent technology. © 1995, Cambridge University Press. All rights reserved.
Swarm robotics is an approach to collective robotics that takes inspiration from the self-organized behaviors of social animals. Through simple rules and local interactions, swarm robotics aims at designing robust, scalable, and flexible collective behaviors for the coordination of large numbers of robots. In this paper, we analyze the literature from the point of view of swarm engineering: we focus mainly on ideas and concepts that contribute to the advancement of swarm robotics as an engineering field and that could be relevant to tackle real-world applications. Swarm engineering is an emerging discipline that aims at defining systematic and well founded procedures for modeling, designing, realizing, verifying, validating, operating, and maintaining a swarm robotics system. We propose two taxonomies: in the first taxonomy, we classify works that deal with design and analysis methods; in the second taxonomy, we classify works according to the collective behavior studied. We conclude with a discussion of the current limits of swarm robotics as an engineering discipline and with suggestions for future research directions. © 2013 Springer Science+Business Media New York.
In this paper, we introduce a self-assembling and self-organizing artifact, called a swarm-bot, composed of a swarm of s-bots, mobile robots with the ability to connect to and to disconnect from each other. We discuss the challenges involved in controlling a swarm-bot and address the problem of synthesizing controllers for the swarm-bot using artificial evolution. Specifically, we study aggregation and coordinated motion of the swarm-bot using a physics-based simulation of the system. Experiments, using a simplified simulation model of the s-bots, show that evolution can discover simple but effective controllers for both the aggregation and the 224 Dorigo et al. coordinated motion of the swarm-bot. Analysis of the evolved controllers shows that they have properties of scalability, that is, they continue to be effective for larger group sizes, and of generality, that is, they produce similar behaviors for configurations different from those they were originally evolved for. The portability of the evolved controllers to real s-bots is tested using a detailed simulation model which has been validated against the real s-bots in a companion paper in this same special issue.
We propose an urban intersection control scheme without the need of the traffic light (lightless control), which leads to potentially disruptive improvement of efficiency of the intersection traffic flow and much reduced fuel consumption and green house gas (GHG) emissions. We in particular show that such lightless intersection control can be achieved with mature technologies; it can be understood as an enhanced version of the connected vehicles, with the installing an intersection cruise control (ICC) device in the vehicle. Simple algorithms of such intersection control and intuitive traffic policies associated with it make the control scheme easy to implement with minimal impact on traditional driving behaviours. Moreover, such control allows a mixture of vehicles with and without ICC device installed, and can coexist with conventional intersection control with traffic lights. We quantify improvements of our lightless intersection control scheme with realistic large-scale numerical simulation of the vehicle drive cycles and the appropriate energy models. In contrast to traditional signallized intersection control where severe congestion develops, the proposed lightless intersection control leads to a smooth, self-organized traffic flow and lower fuel use and emissions. This performance is demonstrated even under high traffic inflow conditions. In many cases, the environmental impact of the presence of the intersection is found to be negligible.
Agent-based models tend to be more and more complex. In order to cope with this increase of complexity, powerful modeling and simulation tools are required. These last years have seen the development of several platforms dedicated to the development of agent-based models. While some of them are still limited to the development of simple models, others allow to develop rich and complex models. Among them, the GAMA modeling and simulation platform is aimed at supporting the design of spatialized, multiple-paradigms and multiple-scales models. Several papers have already introduced GAMA, notably in earlier PRIMA conferences, and we would like, in this paper, to introduce the new features provided by GAMA 1.6, the latest revision to date of the platform. In particular, we present its capabilities concerning the tight combination of 3D visualization, GIS data management, and multi-level modeling. In addition, we present some examples of real projects that rely on GAMA to develop complex models.
